I see you have constructed a new lightsaber
If you had a lightsaber what color would your crystal turn for you comment your color in the comments right now
Now here's a video I've been wanting to do since the channel's birth
but just felt like everyone already knew the answer and there are so many videos like this on YouTube that I felt that that's just
No point doing it but much to my surprise
It doesn't really seem to be as known as I thought. Do you all remember being a little kid after watching Star Wars?
Imagining that you had a lightsaber, I'm sure everyone here can relate. What color was your lightsaber? For me
It was always green or red well in this video
We'll finally learn the different colors that are in Canon,
coupled with what they mean now the new Canon explains lightsabers as turning the color of their users force powers and
Turning red if they are forced to bleed by the Sith. In legends
however the colors were sought after on different planets awarded to the user by their skills and color preference now to
Understand a little better before we embark on these colors
We must know why lightsaber even emits colors so to begin all
Lightsabers house a crystal and this crystal starts as colorless until the users personality and force abilities help determine what color
the crystal will emit. Now not just any Jedi can take any crystal if it is a match the crystal will make a soothing hum
However, if the match isn't compatible, then it will remain frozen to the touch
Let's start this off
Unconventionally here as usual in Star Wars Theory let's begin with purple now purple is the color that wasn't supposed to exist
However when Samuel Jackson got the part of mace windu he wanted to stand out
So he asked George if he could have purple. Now
I'm sure you can guess what the answer was there purple signifies a user of the light that harnesses some dark side attribute and attacks
while
Synergistically using them to defeat the dark side just like how Mace uses of a pod which is a variant of the seventh lightsaber fighting
Style one that Darth Maul mastered as well it allowed him to turn the dark side energy around him towards his attacker
Blue and red makes purple the perfect balance now Disney still has yet to reveal
How Mace Windu made his purple lightsaber since they're extremely rare which will require some backtracking?
But I'm sure it'll be done at some point at least hopefully next up. We'll cover blue, now
This color is used by most Jedi as it's symbolic of guardians and protectors of the Peace.
They are like the Warriors of the Jedi Order by far the most well-rounded of all the Jedi good at everything but
Master of none now blue lightsabers are yet to be further explained by Canon in Star Wars as to how a Jedi turns it blue
instead of green
But in legends the blue crystal was abundant on the planet alone some popular blue users were Anakin Skywalker obi-wan
Kenobi ki-adi-mundi and plugg Koon although platoon if you wait a few minutes will get the yellow
you'll also see that he had a yellow lightsaber so basically any jedi padawan before they really start to exhibit their favorable force powers and
talents would have a blue lightsaber the next color is one of my favorites Green now Green was used only for those who were
Extremely powerful in the force and ones who offered a different view than other
Jedi a Jedi consular as they called them typically used negotiations instead of using their weapon however if need be
They have no problem using it and what a force they were to be reckoned with
In conjunction with their lightsaber training which would start at the early age of a young league as they would progress and own their force
Powers creating the green blade that we see their force powers would definitely help them with their attacks and their fighting style
Everything from speed to acrobatics to power would be implemented
Against their opponent this makes for one of the deadliest Jedi in the galaxy as their force powers aided their attacks and strikes
popular green light
Yoda qui-gon jinn Kit Fisto
Quinlan vos and of course Luke Skywalker by the way how many of you think Luke will have his green lightsaber in
Episode 8. I hope he does red the next color I'd like to talk about is red now of course
We don't see light side users with red lightsabers as no organic crystal is red to begin with
In order to make a lightsaber red one must make it bleed
Against its will I have a video covering the Canon Darth Vader comic and how he made his first lights hit return red from green
Which he stole from a Jedi I'll have him pop up as a cart now
And then at the end of this video again now red signifies if you didn't guess already
anger hatred pain suffering and destruction basically everything a Sith stands for perfect for a Sith Lord
hell-bent on killing Jedi some popular users
include darth vader darth maul darth sidious Count Dooku the inquisitors and
Kylo Ren how many of you here think Snoke will have a red lightsaber or perhaps will he have a black one or?
Will he don't even use a lightsaber is he just too powerful and way beyond using a lightsaber
I'm excited to find that answer out in December yellow. Now this lightsaber was more rare
Not as rare as purple
But it was typically only used by scholars and Jedi Temple guards or in other words
Jedi sentinels it involved the user's crystal to identify their unique intellect and see them as somewhere in-between
Guardians with blue and forced to in consulars with green now
There is no Canon explanation yet about how a lightsaber turns yellow or why?
but what I can say is that Jedi Temple gaurds rotated throughout the order and
With this impermanent position the yellow lightsabers would be passed around as well
You could think of it somewhat like shifts
so if Jedi sentinels had a shift to be
Protectors and Jedi Temple guards then they would take the lightsaber that was there waiting for them from the last person
These lightsabers never belonged to any guard in particular. They were just used amongst the order
We've seen guards use them along with the rail poof and blow Koon
Who's appeared more orange at times, but I figured I'd mention it
Anyway, is due to the closeness in color until we have a cannon orange explanation the next color
We'll examine is silver or rather white ahsoka used this color lightsaber in rebels and until the ahsoka novel came out
It was a bit of a mystery well
This is a lightsaber color that exists when a user
reverses the bleeding method and frees a crystal from its pain that the previous user forced upon it in other words if you heal a
bleeding crystal then it turned white
Ahsoka, took the red lightsaber crystal and freed it from its pain and turning it a pale white color
I also have a video explaining this very topic in detail how it's so good turned her lightsabers
white which I'll have to pop up now and
At the end of the video the last but not least lightsaber is the color black
Which many speculate to be snoke's lightsaber as he has a black Kyber crystal ring on his finger?
I think that he won't even use one
But that's neither here nor there a black lightsaber blade has been seen in the Clone Wars used by the dark saber
it's an ancient weapon stolen from the Jedi hundreds of years prior to the Clone Wars by the
Mandalorians
Even more distinctive than its color or lack thereof
the dark sabers flat
Curved blade is just like a real sword it eventually came into the possession of Darth Maul during the Clone Wars until we see it
later again
And rebels a little Easter Egg is that we can see the dark saber written in the files in rogue one
When jyn erso is trying to steal the Death Star plans?
Now to throw in a bonus fact for all those who made it this far in the video
Comment below if he did did you know the earliest?
Lightsabers also called proto sabers didn't include internal power cells mainly because they hadn't been invented yet
Proto sabers had external power sources this meant that Jedi had to carry around
Huge backpacks on their backs or around their waist which were attached to the lightsaber by a power cord if the cord was cut
Or severed in any way the lightsaber would shut off in battle the Sith were eventually the first ones to develop
Power cells that cut through the lightsaber cords also
Did you know that Luke's green lightsaber in The Return of the Jedi was going to be blue?
And it was even shown this way in episode 6 promo
But George Lucas made the call to switch to green
solely because the blue blade was more difficult to see during the fight scene above the Sarlacc pit while Jabba and his palace watched the
Blue lightsaber was apparently getting lost in the blue sky, that means. We'd never have seen green. I'm glad they changed it
It's much more cool
This way now the real question is what lightsaber
Would you have what color would your crystal turn and why I hope you guys enjoyed this episode?
I think this is one that you can refer back to later down the road if you ever forget or you want some more clarification
On it. It's one that I wanted to cover for sometime if you want me to do legends colors
Let me know as there are literally hundreds of different colors
Which I think would be pretty cool and fun to do also for tomorrow's episode
Do you want me to cover the reason Luke Skywalker went into hiding there are some spoilers in this room?
I wanted to take a breather from leaks and theory videos
I just didn't want to saturate you all or bored you or kind of spread it out over time anyways
Thanks for watching this video leave a thumbs up if you enjoyed it to help the channel grow
And I'll see you all in the next episode of Star Wars Theory until then my fellow Jedi ins and friends
remember the force will be with
always
You